Community Reinvestment Modernization Act of 2009 - Repeals specified revisions to regulations governing the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision.Reinstates banking agency regulations in effect before the publication of such revisions.Amends the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (BHCA) to subject to the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (CRA) nonbank affiliates of bank holding companies that offer banking products or services, including insurance companies and securities firms.

Amends the CRA to subject to a rating reduction any regulated financial institution engaged in negative credit practices or securitization activities, including predatory and discriminatory lending.

Amends the Equal Credit Opportunity Act to require a depository institution, in connection with a small business credit application, to: (1) inquire whether the business is a women- or minority-owned business; and (2) maintain a record of the responses to such inquiry.

Requires a depository institution to maintain records of the number and dollar amounts of customer deposit accounts for each deposit taking service facility.

States that securities companies, mortgage banks, and insurance companies have a continuing affirmative obligation to meet the financial services needs in their assessment areas, including the needs of low- and moderate-income neighborhoods and persons of modest means.

Amends the BHCA to require affiliates of securities companies, mortgage banks, and insurance companies to attain satisfactory ratings in accordance with this Act.

Amends the Federal Credit Union Act to reaffirm that covered credit unions have a continuing and affirmative obligation to meet the needs of their assessment areas (including minority and low- and moderate-income neighborhoods).

Directs the National Credit Union Administration Board (NCUAB) to prescribe regulations for evaluating a covered credit union's record of meeting such obligations.

Insurance Disclosure Act - Directs the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to: (1) establish requirements for insurers to submit information annually about noncommercial insurance, rural insurance, and investments by insurers; and (2) make such information public.

Directs the Financial Institutions Examination Council to maintain a hierarchical database containing the structure of financial holding companies, bank holding companies, depository institutions, and non-depository institutions.Amends the BHCA to authorize certain expanded financial activities by a bank holding company only if it has neither been adjudicated in federal court, nor entered into a consent decree or settlement agreement premised upon a violation of the Fair Housing Act (antiredlining requirement).

Requires: (1) notice and public comment before establishment of a financial holding company; (2) public meetings regarding bank acquisitions and mergers; and (3) a public comment period regarding branch closures.

Amends Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the National Bank Consolidation and Merger Act, and the Home Owners' Loan Act with regard to mandatory meetings involving commenters and financial institutions.

Amends the CRA to subject regulated financial institutions, regardless of size or aggregate assets, to mandatory biennial examinations.Amends the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 to prohibit regulatory exemptions from its reporting requirements.